My relationship with computing has shifted significantly over the course of my life. My parents filtered my brother and I’s access to media content, doing their best to keep us engaged with the world. Unfortunately, that did not stop me from becoming incredibly addicted to video games in my early adolescence as a way to escape from the developmental challenges of a shy and angry middle-school nerd. In working through these challenges, I redirected my addictive behavior toward education (not to be confused with schooling) and physical activity. By high school, I rarely touched a controller unless I was playing with my friends or my brother. I sold my first computer, and used the money from the sale and from my first job to buy a lower-spec computer that made even the oldest games run at a horrendous frame rate. Computing became a tool for academic and extracurricular research and writing, and, with my first smartphone in 2016, a means of connecting with others. The next significant shifts in my relationship with computing came in my fourth and  fifth years of high school, when I learned about design as a problem-solving methodology and the economic exploitation of data. The latter has resulted in my current attitude of maintaining tight security and control over everything I put into the digital world. The former birthed a long-standing interest in integrating the analytical and creative parts of my mind, previously seemingly disparate, to ask meaningful questions and solve meaningful problems.

Now, my relationship with computing is still a relationship of user and a tool. It is important to note that there is no implied “just” or “only” in that sentence; the relationship is deep and rich for analysis. Two axioms from my time woodworking and coding come to mind to structure this relationship. 

The first phrase comes out of woodworking: *measure twice, cut once*. This phrase contains the concept of taking the time to understand the parameters of a problem, to think divergently about the questions and answers surrounding it, and then to converge on a set or single question and/or answer and execute the action. Failing to perform this process will result in either the use of the wrong tool for the action or the misuse of the right tool. Computing, hence, can be both a useful tool and a container for a group of tools to choose from; the more methods and types of computing one practices, the broader the divergent thinking and the more efficient the convergent thinking.

The second phrase comes out of coding: *garbage in, garbage out*. This phrase contains the ideas that if the input makes no sense, the output will make no sense. It emphasizes the importance of mindfulness of which tool is chosen, mirroring the previous phrase, but for me it also contains the importance of respecting a tool. For physical tools, this might mean creating a designated, well-designed tool holder, and for computing this means maintaining organized databases and drives. For both, this also means taking care while using the tool to be mindful and present to the relationship between the tool’s and the user’s purposes. If these are out of alignment, the resulting work will reflect this misalignment. In this way, my relationship with computing is not unidirectional, as many consider the relationship between tool and user. It is bidirectional at the least, for when I take care to align the purpose of the computing method to my purpose, the resulting work reflects the intended purpose, and when I fail to do these things, it does not.

I would never, however, go so far as to say this makes me a better person. My views on self-improvement and morality might be best understood as a midpoint between [Tyler Durden](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=42cSdyzVcXQ) and [Alan Watts](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mkbL4E7t4P0). It makes no sense to me how that which needs to be improved could possibly know how it needs to improve. I prefer to take my cues on what to do from my physical and physiological experience of emotion, and over time, learning to listen to those cues has led me away from and back to computing. Engaging with computing, as engaging with anything, creates changes, and these changes ought not be evaluated based on one or another morality, but analyzed and criticized from multiple human perspectives in order to learn how to ask the next questions and find the answers. I’m glad that my relationship with computing generates an opportunity to synthesize the strengths of my mind to one day help others grapple with and maybe solve challenges that allow them to engage more deeply with their own lives. At the end of the day, it’s this purpose that I care about, and it is good that this thing which once pulled me so far away from my purpose as a child is now coming into alignment with it. Right now, I am practicing, working iteratively to develop more complex computing skills until one day people takes something I create and uses it to nurture their relationship with their values, their lives, and their community.

Of course, it’s not all good. Companies still use computing to take my data, and my current computing skills are not yet where I imagine they would need to be in order to be useful to others.
