A large part of the start of my education in design concerned design for disability, so much so that regular conversations regarding the problem of accessibility of the NYUAD campus occur with colleagues and mentors. As immersed in this conversation around accessible infrastructure and architecture as I am, the final paragraph of Pullin’s chapter summarizes what struck me about the text: 

“There still remains the possibility that with products and services, unlike buildings, design for the whole population might be achieved through a diversity of alternatives, each inclusive in different ways, yet still fairly limited in complexity” (86).

As I read the chapter, the constraints of the focus of the discussions I’ve been having became apparent. Discussing the increasing of affordances to include all people works wonders when the discussion concerns wayfinding, but when with the same ideas applied to products and services, Pullin’s “flying submarine” emerges (75) in all of its unnecessary complexity. A single model of automatic sliding door might work wonders when applied to all building entrances, but a single prosthetic, glasses, phone, music player, or even furniture piece fails to follow a fundamental lesson of observing any system, whether of that system functions on as grand a scale as evolution or as small a scale as the arrangement of objects on a personal desk, diversity works. In this way, while Pullin’s quote provokes realization in one sense, it provokes disagreement in another. As providing a diverse range of simple products allows for inclusion without uniformity, so, too, does providing a diverse variety of paths for users to move through environments allow for inclusion without uniformity. Hence, moving away from the increasingly inappropriate language of products and services, where the diversity in the experience matters most changes based upon the context of the experience in question. 
